The product spec.
You can notice it, this is actually
the longest section on this entire course,
but it's probably the most important
doc you write on a consistent basis.
This gets called a lot of things, I will
be calling it the spec for the rest of
this course because so far every company
I've worked at has called it the spec.
But you'll hear this called the product
specification, the product proposal,
the product sheet, but
we'll go with spec here.
I'm sure I'll start talking about this,
and
if your organization has a peculiar
name for it, that'll come up.
>> Statement of work.
>> Statement of work, that would
actually be another really good one.
Some companies will just call it a ticket,
right?
An email if you're working
at a weird company,
there's a there's a lot
of ways to call this.
But it's basically a source of truth
that like this describes the thing
that we're about to do, and
here's all the relevant details for
anyone that needs to get
aligned on what we're doing.
This should not be a a dead doc, which is
why email is a terrible place for this.
This should be a living doc
that as you learn more and
as you update more,
that this gets updated as you go, right?
So another note here, I've given this
caveat a bunch of times, but I'm gonna
give it here because, again, I think
this section is particularly important.
I'm going to give you my tips and tricks
of how I write product specs, and how I've
seen successful ones over the year, and
stuff that I've taken from other people.
How you choose to write product
specs is totally up to you, and
you should lean into
your own strengths here.
So if you hear something here that you
are unsure about or you might like,
emulate it, try it on, see if it works for
you, and you'll either find out,
I don't like this, I like this just as is.
Or here's this middle ground between what
I thought and what Brian's proposing, and
I'm gonna stick to that.
So I'm inviting you very much to
put your own lenses on here and
absorb this through that way and
then realize that I'm way smarter then
you should just do it my way, right?
I'm just kidding, please don't do that.
So product spec describes
some parcel of work,
this will usually be some enhancement to a
product, maybe it might be a new product.
It should be not necessarily exhaustive,
but
it should link to enough
other things that considered
together it could be exhaustive, right?
So, for example,
a lot of my product specs do not have
all of the technical specifications or
all the edge cases described that the
engineers will work on, but I will link to
those docs, I will put the designs in
the doc, but I will link to the docs.
It should be the nexus of your project or
the center, right,
the town square of this
particular project.
My product specs match one-to-one
to things that go on my roadmap.
I don't know if that necessarily
needs to be true, but
if I have big projects that
are split across quarters,
I'll have a product spec typically
per milestone, or at the very least,
one larger product spec that describes
all the milestones in depth.
But its good not to let these
get totally out of control,
because if it's 100 pages,
no one's gonna read it, right?
My product specs, I'm gonna say average,
smaller projects, probably two pages.
Largest projects are probably ten pages.
I don't know, that's finger in
the air kind of thinking about it.
You can do a half pager for something
really small but that would be very,
very small.
>> When you talk about your page count,
may I ask directly,
what it is that you're approximating?
Is it the amount that needs to
be communicated to describe
the concept or idea?
So, let me pick a really easy one.
I've got a data scientist, Jason put this
behind something that we can query, okay?
So what I'm gonna hand you
is a flask app with one HTTP
endpoint that accesses my model, period.
That's all I'm gonna give you.
But to describe that is a paragraph,
unless I get into describing the model,
right?
So how do you think about what
deserves half a page versus what
deserves ten pages?
You were talking a little
bit about complexity, but
what features of complexity,
I suppose, would cue you?
>> Yeah, I think it's gonna be most
driven by how much alignment I'm driving.
In this particular case,
it sounds like it's you and Jason and
you are the only two stakeholders in
this particular product project, so
less is more here, right?
So, I need this end result.
Here you go.
In which case, by all means, just put
it in an email, or a Slack message, or
something like that,
where wherever Jason would like to
be reached, put it there, right?
You don't have to drive much
alignment between you two,
you just need basically
a statement of work, right?
I need this thing and
I have this timeline.
Most of the things I work
on probably incorporate ten
different stakes at the very least.
Legal, security, design, engineering, and
management, product management,
project management like so.
At the scale that I work at, I have to
satisfy at least 10 different viewpoints
with any product spec, and that can
balloon based on how big something is.
One of the projects that work on
touches all snowflake which means that
If I have to speak to thousands of people,
potentially.
That is a very large project spect or
product spec,
so either one of those are fine.
So does that answer your question?
>> It's a great, thank you.
>> Yeah, there we go.
So I'm gonna give you a rough
a framework of how I think about it,
and this is just stuff that I
found useful over the years.
This didn't come from anywhere
other than my own brain and
stuff that I've stolen from my co-workers
that I saw as effective, right?
I think this would apply
across many industries and
then you would just add your own
specific flavor to this as well.
There's some specific Stripe
stuff that we put in here,
regulatory was a really big thing for
Stripe, and we always talked everything,
are we gonna upset anything
regulation-wise by doing this?
I have less of a problem
with that at Snowflake.
We still have parts of Snowflake
have to be compliant, but
we're not worried about
compliance on every project.
So here is my nine sections that more or
less make it into all of my particular
product specs that are of any normal size.
The executive summary,
always the first thing.
The problem statements
are in the user stories.
Goals and non-goals, where I basically
say, I'm definitely gonna do this,
I'm definitely not gonna do that.
The key metrics that I expect to affect,
and
I'll talk about these in depth
as I go through here as well.
The rollback criteria, this one I
see a lot of people not do, and I'm
going to invite you that I think it's a
good thing if it applies to your industry.
If we don't do these things, or
we don't meet these goals, or
these goals don't accomplish, and
we see that we see no path forward on it,
we're gonna roll back to where we were.
Because I like to be very explicit with,
this is an experiment,
everything I do is an experiment.
I don't know if I'm right,
even if I've done a bunch of research.
And if we prove to ourselves that
we don't think that we're right,
we're gonna go back to where we were,
so we don't have dead weight that we're
carrying through of all these
dead experiments, right?
Timelines, design mocks, outstanding
questions, and then appendices.
Some projects will have less than this,
some projects like rollback criteria
just won't make any sense, right?
Some projects have such short timelines
that you don't really need to diagram too
much out what the timeline is.
Some questions or some projects you just
don't have any outstanding questions,
some don't have appendices.
Some things are like APIs that
you're putting out there, so
you don't need designs.
I guess in this particular section,
actually if you were doing an API,
I probably would mark out code and when
I code I would expect to look like that
calls it, I've done that a lot before.
But some things just won't have some sort
of visual representation, that's fine.
But my overarching principle
principle here is the same.
This is roughly ordered in
the order of importance to me,
as the product owner, I have what I
want you to read from this, right?
If you only read the bluff,
I'm stoked, right?
You got most of my point
of view read this, right?
If you only read my
outstanding questions and
technical concerns about my project,
I'm very upset at you,
you read the wrong part of it,
right, I would never put that first.
You might ask,
where am I gonna do context setting?
Typically, in the problem statement.
You're gonna give them enough
context about the problem and
enough context about your proposed
solution here and the user studies,
then they can understand the rest
of the product spec, right?